about.md, before:

---
layout: about
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

## About

**OPENLEGALDATA.IO** is a free and open platform that makes legal documents and information accessible to the public. 
Our goal is to enhance the transparency of the jurisdiction with the help of open data and by supporting people 
without legal education to understand the justice system. The project is committed to the 
[Open Data Principles](https://opendefinition.org/od/2.1/en/) and the [Free Access to Law Movement](http://www.fatlm.org/).

The rule of law is one of the most important principles of a constitutional democracy. However, as it can be seen
everyday in the media, trust and confidence in the justice systems is declining. One of the great challenges in 
today's legal system is to communicate effectively to the outside world that there is a big difference between 
subjective legal understanding and objective legal understanding. Many citizens may feel unfairly treated by the 
legal system, and this feeling can probably only be objectively confirmed in a few cases. With transparent 
jurisdiction through the consistent publication of laws and judicial decisions, simple, statistical methods
convey objectivity that ultimately benefits all parties involved.

With search engines like Google and free encyclopedias like Wikipedia, the Internet has changed the way we access and 
consume information enormously. Today, anyone can find information on the Internet - free of charge and in fractions 
of a second. Modern, voice-activated virtual assistants such as Siri or Alexa further simplify our access to 
information by providing an immediate answer to a spoken question. All these different ways of accessing information 
have in common that the information comes from freely accessible, open data. However, information on the Internet on 
legal topics is often from secondary sources. Although in most countries the legal text is publicly accessible and 
exempt from copyright, legal content (legal texts and court decisions) is often either not published or hidden 
behind Paywalls of commercial databases. Lawyers can and must afford to pay for the content. This is often too much 
of an obstacle for other citizens, which ultimately prevents access. This not only concerns affected citizens who 
want information but also scientists and start-ups. This prevents innovation on easy access to legal issues.


The open source project OPENLEGALDATA.IO wants to change this. We collect laws and jurisdiction and publish them 
free of charge as open data. It is particularly important to us that the data is made accessible in machine-readable 
form via an API. We hope that we can use the freely accessible legal data to encourage researchers and young 
entrepreneurs to work with this data. Together we want to develop instruments that facilitate the understanding 
of the legal system.  Our source code is released under MIT license on [GitHub](https://github.com/openlegaldata/).

Commit message:

added team page and updated texts

about.md, after:

---
layout: about
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

## About

**OPENLEGALDATA.IO** is a free and open platform that makes legal documents and information accessible to the public. 
Our goal is to enhance the transparency of the jurisdiction with the help of open data and by supporting people 
without legal education to understand the justice system. The project is committed to the 
[Open Data Principles](https://opendefinition.org/od/2.1/en/) and the [Free Access to Law Movement](http://www.fatlm.org/).

The rule of law is an important principle of a constitutional democracy. 
In Germany, every jurisdictional decision is made "on behalf of the people". 
However, many people do not have access to these decisions or have difficulties in understanding the complex jurisdictional language.
Furthermore, when people seek information on the Internet about the jurisdiction system, they are often confronted with documents from unknown origin. 
This often distorted information can in some cases reduce confidence in the system. 

Although in most countries legal documents (legislation and jurisdictional decisions) are publicly accessible and exempt from copyright, they are
often either not published online or hidden behind paywalls of commercial databases. In Germany in particular, although case law is in the public domain, the legal decisions that interpret and apply statutory law are scattered across the Internet, included in proprietary systems, and available only for exorbitant fees.

In our opinion, improving communication is a great challenge for today's legal system. On the one hand, citizens need a user-friendly, free, and low barrier way to access legal information.
On the other side, legal entities and courts need digitalization tools that ease their work and do not add another layer of complexity to it. 
We firmly believe that transparent jurisdiction through the consistent publication of legal documents ultimately benefits all parties involved. 


With OPENLEGALDATA.IO, we have developed an open source platform available on
[GitHub](https://github.com/openlegaldata/) under the MIT license. 
We collect laws and jurisdiction and publish them free of charge as open data. 
Ultimately, we want to evolve OPENLEGALDATA.IO into a movement for transparent jurisdiction as part of the open science movement. 
We hope that we can encourage more researchers
and policymakers to work together with us on our vision. 
Together, we want to develop instruments that facilitate the understanding of the German legal system by not only providing the jurisdictional decisions but also the contained information in a comprehensible way.
